Add PostgreSQL version info and upgrade in documentation (#3992)
GeotrekCE/Geotrek-admin: docs/install/installation.rst

If you use an external database, you should adapt this method along your system

PostgreSQL
----------

Geotrek-admin support PostgreSQL 10+ and PostGIS 2.5+ for now.
In next release, Django 4.2 will drop PostgreSQL < 12 support.
We recommend to upgrade to PostgreSQL 16 and PostGIS 3.4.

You can check your PostgreSQL version with the following command:

::

   sudo geotrek check_versions --postgresql

If your version if below 12, you should upgrade your PostgreSQL server.
If you can not upgrade for the moment, check release notes before each Geotrek-admin upgrade to ensure compatibility.
You will be able to mark hold your geotrek-admin ubuntu package to prevent unwanted upgrade.

::

   sudo apt-mark hold geotrek-admin

In case of unwanted upgrade, you will be able te revert your version to last supporting PostgreSQL 10 with, for example:

::

   sudo apt-get install geotrek-admin=2.102.1.ubuntu20.04

for Ubuntu 20.04, or

::

   sudo apt-get install geotrek-admin=2.102.1.ubuntu18.04

for Ubuntu bionic

> Update PostgreSQL / PotGIS on Ubuntu Bionic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update PostgreSQL / PostGIS on Ubuntu Bionic
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::

    Ubuntu Bionic is already deprecated. We recommend you to install PostgreSQL on a dedicated server, with a most recent version of Ubuntu.

>     If possible, on se same host or datacenter than you Geotrek-admin instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If possible, on the same host or datacenter than your Geotrek-admin instance.
```

    If you can't, you can follow these instructions to upgrade PostgreSQL and PostGIS on Ubuntu Bionic with official PostgreSQL APT archive repository.
    The ultimate version published for Bionic is PostgreSQL 14, supported until November 12, 2026.

::

    sudo rm /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list
    sudo apt install curl ca-certificates
    sudo install -d /usr/share/postgresql-common/pgdg
    sudo curl -o /usr/share/postgresql-common/pgdg/apt.postgresql.org.asc --fail https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc
    sudo sh -c 'echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/postgresql-common/pgdg/apt.postgresql.org.asc] https://apt-archive.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt $(lsb_release -cs)-pgdg main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/pgdg.list'
    sudo apt update

Then, make a database dump.

::

>     sudo -u postgres pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner -U <your geotrek database user> -d <your geotrek database name> > /path/to/your/backup.dump

Author: ```suggestion
    sudo -u postgres pg_dump -Fc --no-acl --no-owner -d <your geotrek database name> > /path/to/your/backup.dump
```

Now, install newest version of PostgreSQL and PostGIS:

::

    sudo apt install postgresql-14-postgis-3

Recreate user and database:

::

    sudo -u postgres psql -p 5433

.. note::

>     Installing many PostgreSQL versions on same system will use another port than default 5432.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Installing many PostgreSQL versions on the same system will use another port than default 5432.
```

    You can check the newest port with ``pg_lsclusters`` command.

::

>     CREATE ROLE <your geotrek user> WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD '<your geotrek user password>';

Author: ```suggestion
    CREATE USER <your geotrek user> WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD '<your geotrek user password>';
```

    CREATE DATABASE <your geotrek database> WITH OWNER <your geotrek user>;
    \c <your geotrek database>
    CREATE EXTENSION postgis;
    CREATE EXTENSION postgis_raster;
    CREATE EXTENSION pgcrypto;
    \q

::

>     sudo -u postgres -p 5433 pg_restore -d <your geotrek database> /path/to/your/backup.dump

Author: ```suggestion
    pg_restore -p 5433 -U <your geotrek user> -d <your geotrek database> /path/to/your/backup.dump
```

.. warning::

    If you have configured `pg_hba.conf` or tuning your `postgresql.conf`,
    you should report configuration from /etc/postgresql/10/{pg_hba.conf | postgresql.conf} to /etc/postgresql/14/{pg_hba.conf | postgresql.conf}.
    Then restart your postgresql

    ::

        sudo systemctl restart postgresql

Now, you can update your Geotrek-admin configuration to use the new PostgreSQL server, by changing its default port to the new one.

::

    sudo dpkg-reconfigure geotrek-admin

> And change POSTGRES_PORT to 5433 (or other port found in `pg_lsclusters` command)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And change ``POSTGRES_PORT`` to 5433 (or other port found in `pg_lsclusters` command)
```

> You can now upgrade you Geotrek-admin, and check that the right database is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now upgrade your Geotrek-admin, and check that the right database is used.
```

.. note::

    If you want to use default 5432 port, you should change it in `postgresql.conf`,
    restart postgresql service, and change it by reconfiguring Geotrek-admin.

::

        sudo geotrek check_versions --postgresql

> If it show PostgreSQL 14, you can remove the old PostgreSQL version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it shows PostgreSQL 14, you can remove the old PostgreSQL version.
```

If you use an external database, you should adapt this method along your system

PostgreSQL
----------

Geotrek-admin support PostgreSQL 10+ and PostGIS 2.5+ for now.
In next release, Django 4.2 will drop PostgreSQL < 12 support.
We recommend to upgrade to PostgreSQL 16 and PostGIS 3.4.

You can check your PostgreSQL version with the following command:

::

   sudo geotrek check_versions --postgresql

> If your version if below 12, you should upgrade your PostgreSQL server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your PostgreSQL version is below 12, you should upgrade your PostgreSQL server.
```

If you can not upgrade for the moment, check release notes before each Geotrek-admin upgrade to ensure compatibility.

> You will be able to mark hold your geotrek-admin ubuntu package to prevent unwanted upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be able to mark hold your Geotrek-admin Ubuntu package to prevent unwanted upgrade.
```

::

   sudo apt-mark hold geotrek-admin

> In case of unwanted upgrade, you will be able te revert your version to last supporting PostgreSQL 10 with, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of unwanted upgrade, you will be able to revert your Geotrek-admin version to last supporting PostgreSQL 10 with, for example:
```
